How wonderful and impressive
to realize that Jehovah promises
to raise people from the dead
and to end death permanently!
I invite you to read with me
that comforting promise
found in Isaiah chapter 25.
Regarding our God, Jehovah,
Isaiah 25:7, 8 says:
“He will do away with the shroud
“that is enveloping all the peoples
“and the covering that is woven
“over all the nations.
“He will swallow up death forever,
“and the Sovereign Lord Jehovah
will wipe away the tears from all faces.”
The Watchtower
of September 15, 2014,
page 25, said:
“Fittingly, the Bible refers
to inherited sin and death
“as ‘the shroud
that is enveloping all the peoples
“and the covering
that is woven over all the nations.’
“This suffocating covering, or shroud,
“this intricate webwork of condemnation,
entraps all people.”
But how do we know that Jehovah
can resurrect the dead?
Because he already brought his people
back to life figuratively in the past.
In 537 before our Common Era,
Jehovah, in effect,
raised the nation of Israel from the dead,
restoring the people who were held captive
in Babylon for 70 years to their homeland
and reestablishing pure worship.
In 1919,
Jehovah freed his modern-day people
from Babylon the Great,
the world empire of false religion,
revitalizing them for renewed activity.
Isaiah 26:19 prophesied this:
“Your dead will live.
“My corpses will rise up.
“Awake and shout joyfully,
“you residents in the dust!
“For your dew is as the dew
“of the morning, and the earth will let those
powerless in death come to life.”
When were God’s people held captive
by Babylon the Great?
That spiritual captivity lasted
from the second century
of our Common Era to 1919,
when anointed Christians were gathered
into the restored congregation.
God’s people were tested and refined
during the years following the establishment
of God’s Kingdom in the heavens in 1914.
Then, in 1919, Jesus appointed
“the faithful and discreet slave”
over God’s cleansed people
to give them spiritual
“food at the proper time.”
This was the year that God’s people
started to return
to their God-given spiritual estate.
It was also the time when they
were released from symbolic captivity
to Babylon the Great.
How happy we can be, though,
that after God’s people experienced
centuries of spiritual oppression,
we as God’s people
not only experience a spiritual restoration
and a spiritual paradise
but also will see the fulfillment
of Isaiah 25:8
when God “[swallows] up death forever”!
Yes, Jehovah will end death forever.
What a thrilling promise of peace!
Who of us have not lost a loved one
to some disease,
perhaps even from COVID-19
or an accident or a disaster?
God here promises
that death will be no more,
which suggests that the children who
might be born then will not have to face
the prospect of growing up and then
getting old, ending in death.
In addition to Isaiah’s prophecy,
Revelation 21:4 clearly states
a similar thought.
There we read that “death will be no more.”
As you watch the following video,
think about what Jehovah has already done
to show his love for us
and what he will do for us in the future.
Jehovah fulfilled his word to the exiles.
He restored that ruined nation
as if bringing it back to life.
In 1919,
Jehovah did something similar.
He released his modern-day people
from spiritual captivity
and energized them to preach.
Just as Jehovah raised his people
from figurative death,
so will he reverse
the effects of literal death.
Indeed, God “will swallow up death forever.”
Imagine living longer than any tree
because “death will be no more.”
How we delight in the many things
Jehovah gives us!
Today, we are privileged
to be among the only group of people
who worship Jehovah
in the elevated way that he approves,
as prophesied in Isaiah 2:2.
And think about the overwhelming joy
we will feel when Jehovah
resurrects our loved ones!
Thank Jehovah
for our precious resurrection hope.
First Thessalonians 4:13 says:
“Moreover, brothers,
“we do not want you to be ignorant
“about those who are sleeping in death,
“so that you may not sorrow
as the rest do who have no hope.”
Meditate on it to strengthen
your faith and courage.
Why is it important for us to do so?
Because the threat of death
is a powerful weapon.
Those under Satan’s control
use it to force people to betray
their friends
or to give up their convictions.
But that threat is powerless against us.
We know that if our enemies kill us,
Jehovah will restore us to life.
We are convinced that nothing
they can do can sever
our attachment to Jehovah.
What remarkable wisdom
Jehovah has shown
by giving us the resurrection hope!
By means of it, he disarms Satan
of one of his most effective weapons
and at the same time arms us
with unbreakable courage.
Remember that death is temporary
and that the life Jehovah
offers each of us will last forever.
In this symposium,
we have learned how Jehovah
fulfilled his promises in the past,
how he is fulfilling them today,
and how he will fulfill them in the future.
As we have seen,
God’s promises of peace include:
(1) nutritious spiritual
and physical food for all,
(2) adequate housing and satisfying work,
(3) freedom from the risk of violence,
(4) perfect physical health,
and (5) the elimination of death.
With Jehovah as our God and best Friend,
we will ‘delight
in the abundance of peace forever.’